Penetration Testing Process:

	- Pre-Engagement :
Define commitments, tasks, scope, limitations and related engagement
After this, we move to Information Gathering stage.


intro to networking, intro to webapp, web request, JavaScript Deobfuscation, 
intro to Active Directory,


	- Informationg Gathering :

Network Enumeration with nmap, Footprinting,


	- Vulnerability assessment : (using automated tools like Nessus, Qualys, OpenVAS)

Exploitation : Trying to get into the system
Post-Exploitation : We try to escalate privilege
Lateral Movement : We try to attack other system on the network
Info gathering:  Go back to info gathering to exploit other vulnerabilities


-> Vulnerabilities assessment, File Transfers, Shells & payloads, Metasploit framework


	- Explotoitation: 
-> Password attacks/ attacking common services/ pivoting, tunneling and port forwarding
Active Directory Enumeration and attacks


	- Web exploitation
Using wb proxies/ Attacking web with ffuf/ Login Brute force/ SQL injection fundamentals
SQLMap essentials/ XSS / File Inclusion/ Command Injections/ Web Attacks/ Attacking Common App


	- Post-Exploitation




	I- Penetration Testing Overview

Testing methods : external and internal

	a- External Penetration Test:

Many pentests are used from and external/anonymous perspective


	b- Internal Penetration Test:

We perform testing from within the corporate network

	c- Types of Testing environment:

Network		Web App		Mobile 		API 		Thick Client
IoT		Cloud		Source Code	Physical Security	Employees
Hosts 		Server 		Security Policies	Firewall	IDS/IPS






	II- Scoping Questionnaire 
It should clearly explain our services and may typically ask them to choose one or more from
the following list:

☐ Internal Vulnerability Assessment	☐ External Vulnerability Assessment
☐ Internal Penetration Test		☐ External Penetration Test
☐ Wireless Security Assessment		☐ Application Security Assessment
☐ Physical Security Assessment		☐ Social Engineering Assessment
☐ Red Team Assessment			☐ Web Application Security Assessment



Rules of Engagement - Checklist
Checkpoint			Contents
☐ Introduction			Description of this document.
☐ Contractor			Company name, contractor full name, job title.
☐ Penetration Testers		Company name, pentesters full name.
☐ Contact Information		Mailing addresses, e-mail addresses, and phone numbers of all client parties and penetration testers.
☐ Purpose			Description of the purpose for the conducted penetration test.
☐ Goals				Description of the goals that should be achieved with the penetration test.
☐ Scope				All IPs, domain names, URLs, or CIDR ranges.
☐ Lines of Communication	Online conferences or phone calls or face-to-face meetings, or via e-mail.
☐ Time Estimation		Start and end dates.
☐ Time of the Day to Test	Times of the day to test.
☐ Penetration Testing Type	External/Internal Penetration Test/Vulnerability Assessments/Social Engineering.
☐ Penetration Testing Locations	Description of how the connection to the client network is established.
☐ Methodologies			OSSTMM, PTES, OWASP, and others.
☐ Objectives / Flags		Users, specific files, specific information, and others.
☐ Evidence Handling		Encryption, secure protocols
☐ System Backups		Configuration files, databases, and others.
☐ Information Handling		Strong data encryption
☐ Incident Handling and Reporting	Cases for contact, pentest interruptions, type of reports
☐ Status Meetings		Frequency of meetings, dates, times, included parties
☐ Reporting			Type, target readers, focus
☐ Retesting			Start and end dates
☐ Disclaimers and Limitation of Liability	System damage, data loss
☐ Permission to Test		Signed contract, contractors agreement





Vulnerabilities Assessment

Type of vulnerabilities analysis:
	- Descriptive
	- Diagnostic
	- Predictive
	- Prescriptive




Exploitation :
Prioritization:
	- probability of success => CVSS Scoring or NVD Calculator
	- complexity
	- probability of damage











